Use Detre to clean dates


Messy (or dirty) dates can be a challenge to clean. There come in many different formats and handling each format is not
feasible when you have 100s or 1000s of rows in your data.  In the image below, an excel
user wanted to transform the messy dates into the desired format. However, for an average excel user to make
the necessary transformations would not be easy at scale. We understand why the user seeked help from the community because,
no standard click here and there would solve the problem.  

We built Detre to help someone who faces such a problem with their data. They don't need to have above-average Excel skills or  
know how to program. They need to just upload the data, select the correct data type and be aware of how Detre `sees` such data.

When we look at the dates shown in the image, they have common attributes.  These are:
 1. White-space
 2. Special characters (*, etc.)
 3. Text
 4. Numbers
 5. Date Text

The user will provide the guide as to what attributes are present in the given messy date.  For example, `8/12/04 (scholarship)`
has numbers (i.e. 8,12,04), special characters (i.e. /, (, and ) ) and text (i.e. scholarship) and the task for Detre would be
to remove the special characters and text while interperting the numbers as a date. Fortunately, the ISO 8601 standard, which is used
universally, has symbols to represent days, months and years. The date `8/12/04` can be represented as 'd/m/y' in ISO 8601 format. Now,
for the date to be cleaned, the user would provide the following:   d*m*y*text*. In the table below, we show the guidance the user will need
to provide for each messy date.   Detre also has a feature that allows group changes to be made to messy dates that have the same pattern.

The platform, now, makes certain assumptions related to to messy dates.  One, there are no spelling mistakes for the months. Two, there are no multiple dates in the field and if there is then use the first one. Three,
all numbers are related to dates. These a quite strong assumptions given how messy dates are in the wild. We are working on fixing this.

As we have shown, Detre can indeed help cleaning your messy dates with relative ease. This is inline with our mission to `half the time spent on data cleaning`. Are you ready to join?
Then send us your story of messy dates so we can improve our platform for everyone.

  